README.md, before:

# ArcticOutlooc
Water Information in Alaska

## Getting Started
### Dependencies
This project is built on Python 3.11.x. It is recommended that this project is used with a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to prevent any issues with the dependencies. 
This project utilizes the following Python libraries:
* [PyMongo](https://pymongo.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
* [Scrapy](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/)
* [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/)
* [openpyxl](https://openpyxl.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

### Set up
Prior to running any of the scripts in this project, ensure that the following updates are made to the files.

**Operator Spider**
In the `operators` directory, navigate to `settings.py`. Change the final three lines of code to your MongoDB database information:
```
MONGODB_URI = "Your MongoDB Connection String"
MONGODB_DATABASE = "Your Database Name"
MONGODB_COLLECTION = "Your Collection Name"
```
>Optional: You may also change the `USER_AGENT` to any other desired user agent.

**Community Profiles**
Navigate to `community_profiles.py`. Located near the top of this file are the MongoDB connection settings that need to be adjusted for this project to run.
```
MONGODB_URI = "Your MongoDB Connection String"
MONGODB_DATABASE = "Your Database Name"
COMMUNITY_TABLE = "Your Community Collection Name"
CONTACT_TABLE = "Your Contact Collection Name"
```
>Optional: You may also change the `USER_AGENT` to any other desired user agent.


### Executing Program
**Operator Spider**
* On the command line, navigate to the repository. From there, navigate to the top level operators directory: `cd operators`
* Activate the spider: `scrapy crawl operators`

**Community Profiles**
* Navigate to the directory that houses `community_profiles.py`. The default for this is the top level of this repository.
* Run the Python script
    - For Mac: `python3 community_profiles.py`
    - For Windows: `py community_profiles.py` or `python.exe community_profiles.py`

Commit message:

MongoDB README
Added additional information about MongoDB into the README.

README.md, after:

# ArcticOutlooc
Water Information in Alaska

## Getting Started
### Dependencies
This project is built on Python 3.11.x. It is recommended that this project is used with a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to prevent any issues with the dependencies. 
This project utilizes the following Python libraries:
* [PyMongo](https://pymongo.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
* [Scrapy](https://docs.scrapy.org/en/latest/)
* [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/)
* [openpyxl](https://openpyxl.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)

In addition to ensuring Python and the required libraries are installed, this project also requires a [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) database for storing the collected information. When using a cluster provided by [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database), be sure to record the appropriate [connection string](https://www.mongodb.com/basics/mongodb-connection-string), collection name(s), and table name(s) for each script. There is also a [GUI interface](https://www.mongodb.com/products/compass) available that allows users to view database information.

### Set up
Prior to running any of the scripts in this project, ensure that the following updates are made to the files.

**Operator Spider**
In the `operators` directory, navigate to `settings.py`. Change the final three lines of code to your MongoDB database information:
```
MONGODB_URI = "Your MongoDB Connection String"
MONGODB_DATABASE = "Your Database Name"
MONGODB_COLLECTION = "Your Collection Name"
```

For Example:
```
MONGODB_URI = "mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@beyondthebasics.abcde.mongodb.net/test"
MONGODB_DATABASE = "Outlook"
MONGODB_COLLECTION = "Operators"
```
>Optional: You may also change the `USER_AGENT` to any other desired user agent.

**Community Profiles**
Navigate to `community_profiles.py`. Located near the top of this file are the MongoDB connection settings that need to be adjusted for this project to run.
```
MONGODB_URI = "Your MongoDB Connection String"
MONGODB_DATABASE = "Your Database Name"
COMMUNITY_TABLE = "Your Community Collection Name"
CONTACT_TABLE = "Your Contact Collection Name"
```

For Example:
```
MONGODB_URI = "mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@beyondthebasics.abcde.mongodb.net/test"
MONGODB_DATABASE = "Outlook"
COMMUNITY_TABLE = "CommunityProfiles"
CONTACT_TABLE = "Contacts"
```
>Optional: You may also change the `USER_AGENT` to any other desired user agent.


### Executing Program
**Operator Spider**
* On the command line, navigate to the repository. From there, navigate to the top level operators directory: `cd operators`
* Activate the spider: `scrapy crawl operators`

**Community Profiles**
* Navigate to the directory that houses `community_profiles.py`. The default for this is the top level of this repository.
* Run the Python script
    - For Mac: `python3 community_profiles.py`
    - For Windows: `py community_profiles.py` or `python.exe community_profiles.py`
